Diabetes can have many damaging effects
on the legs and feet due to changes
in the blood vessels and nerves.
You may not feel a cut, blister, or sore
if you’ve lost the feeling
in your foot due to nerve damage.
These injuries can lead to ulcers or infection.
A diabetic ulcer is a breakdown of
the skin on an area of the foot.
It may be difficult to heal
because damage to blood vessels
prevents it from getting enough blood and oxygen.
Without treatment, it may progress
through layers of tissue.
Ultimately the tissue may die,
and amputation may be necessary.
People with diabetes are also
more likely to develop cellulitis,
a bacterial type of infection.
Cellulitis can affect both
the skin and the fat underneath.
It usually begins with a tear or break on the skin
that permits bacteria to enter,
but a weakened immune system sometimes
allows it to start when skin has not been broken.